DEMONSTRATING MAC LEARNING
= Open your packet tracer and open the Configuration1.pkt
= Set each PC to use all of this MAC ADDRESS:
  0200.1111.1111 = PC0
  0200.2222.2222 = PC1
  0200.3333.3333 = PC2
  0200.4444.4444 = PC3
= Set each PC to use all of this IP ADDRESS:
  10.10.1.2 with subnet mask 255.255.255.0 = PC0
  10.10.1.3 with subnet mask 255.255.255.0 = PC1
  10.10.1.4 with subnet mask 255.255.255.0 = PC2
  10.10.1.5 with subnet mask 255.255.255.0 = PC3
  
= Setting the switch to:
    ■ Use the erase startup-config EXEC command to erase the startup-config file
    ■ Use the delete vlan.dat EXEC command to delete the VLAN configuration details
    ■ Use the reload EXEC command to reload the switch (thereby using the empty startupconfig, with no VLAN information configured)
    ■ Configure the hostname SW1 command to set the switch hostname

= Now try to ping from one pc to another, and then each time you ping using the command "show mac-address-table" to see CAM of the
  switch (also you can use the command "show mac-address-table dynamic")

Next, look at the Type field in the heading of the output table. The column tells us how the switch learned the MAC
address as described earlier in this chapter; in this case, the switch learned all MAC addresses dynamically. You
can also statically predefine MAC table entries using a couple of different features, including port security, and
those would appear as Static in the Type column.

Finally, the VLAN column of the output gives us a chance to briefly discuss how VLANs impact switching logic. LAN switches forward
Ethernet frames inside a VLAN. What that means is if a frame enters via a port in VLAN 1, then the switch will forward or flood that
frame out other ports in VLAN 1 only, and not out any ports that happen to be assigned to another VLAN. Chapter 8, “Implementing
Ethernet Virtual LANs,” looks at all the details of how switches forward frames when using VLANs.

= now on your switch, use command "show interfaces status" (for fast typing command "sh int st")

As a reminder, Cisco Catalyst switches name their ports based on the fastest specification supported, so in this case, the switch
has 24 interfaces named FastEthernet, and two named GigabitEthernet. Many commands abbreviate those terms, this time as Fa for
FastEthernet and Gi for GigabitEthernet. (The example happens to come from a Cisco Catalyst switch that has 24 10/100 ports and two
10/100/1000 ports.)

The Status column, of course, tells us the status or state of the port. In this case, the lab switch had cables and devices connected
to ports F0/1–F0/4 only, with no other cables connected. As a result, those first four ports have a state of connected, meaning that
the ports have a cable and are functional. The notconnect state means that the port is not yet functioning. It may mean that there is
no cable installed, but other problems may exist as well. (The section “Analyzing Switch Interface Status and Statistics,” in Chapter
7, “Configuring and Verifying Switch Interfaces,” works through the details of what causes a switch interface to fail.)

NOTE You can see the status for a single interface in a couple of ways. For instance, for F0/1, the command "show interfaces f0/1 
status" lists the status in a single line of output as in your switch lab. The "show interfaces f0/1" command (without the status keyword)
displays a detailed set of messages about the interface.

The show interfaces command has a large number of options. One particular option, the counters option, lists statistics about incoming and
outgoing frames on the interfaces. (this command and the option is applied in real switch, if you use the packet tracer, this command is
unavailable).In particular, it lists the number of unicast, multicast, and broadcast frames (both the in and out directions), and a total
byte count for those frames.

= on your switch, use command "show mac address-table dynamic address 0200.1111.1111" to find individual entries.

how to troubleshoot the network? While this information is useful, often the engineer troubleshooting a problem does not know the MAC 
addresses of the devices connected to the network. Instead, the engineer has a topology diagram, knowing which switch ports connect to other
switches and which connect to endpoint devices.

= on your switch, use command "show mac address-table dynamic interface fastEthernet 0/1" you might be troubleshooting while looking at a network topology diagram and
  want to look at all the MAC addresses learned off a particular port.

= on your switch, use command "show mac address-table dynamic vlan 1" => you may also want to find the MAC address table entries for one VLAN. You
  guessed it—you can add the vlan parameter, followed by the VLAN number.

First, for aging out MAC table entries, switches remove entries that have not been used for a defined number of seconds (default of 300 seconds on many switches). when
switches learning MAC Address However, if that entry already exists, the switch still does something: it resets the inactivity timer back to 0 for that entry. Each 
entry’s timer counts upward  over time to measure how long the entry has been in the table. The switch times out (removes) any entries whose timer reaches the defined
aging time.

= on your switch, use command "show mac address-table aging-time" to show the table of mac address's timer

The aging time can be configured to a different time, globally and per-VLAN using the "mac address-table aging-time time-in-seconds [vlan vlan-number]" global 
configuration command.  Each switch also removes the oldest table entries, even if they are younger than the aging time setting, if the table fills. When a switch tries
to add a new MAC table entry and finds the table full, the switch times out (removes) the oldest table entry to make space.

= on your switch, use command "show mac address-table count" list the size of a cisco catalyst MAC table 
= on your switch, use command "clear mac address table dynamic" remove the dynamic entries from MAC address table

The command also allows parameters to limit the types of entries cleared, as follows:
  ■ By VLAN: clear mac address-table dynamic vlan vlan-number
  ■ By Interface: clear mac address-table dynamic interface interface-id
  ■ By MAC address: clear mac address-table dynamic address mac-address

Now on practical2, learn how mac address learn in both of the switch.