HOW ROUTERS USE A WAN DATA LINK (Image5.PNG)
Following the steps in the Image5.PNG, for a packet sent by PC1 to PC2’s IP address:
    1. PC1’s network layer (IP) logic tells it to send the packet to a nearby router (R1).
    2. Router R1’s network layer logic tells it to forward (route) the packet out the leased line
       to Router R2 next.
    3. Router R2’s network layer logic tells it to forward (route) the packet out the LAN link
       to PC2 next.

While Image5.PNG shows the network layer logic, the PCs and routers must rely on the LANs and WANs in the Image5
to actually move the bits in the packet. Image6.PNG shows the same figure, with the same packet, but this time
showing some of the data-link layer logic used by the hosts and routers. Basically, three separate data-link 
layer steps encapsulate the packet, inside a data-link frame, over three hops through the internetwork: from PC1
to R1, from R1 to R2, and from R2 to PC2.

Following the steps in the Image6, again for a packet sent by PC1 to PC2’s IP address:
    1. To send the IP packet to Router R1 next, PC1 encapsulates the IP packet in an Ethernet frame that has the 
       destination MAC address of R1.
    2. Router R1 de-encapsulates (removes) the IP packet from the Ethernet frame, encapsulates the packet into an HDLC
       frame using an HDLC header and trailer, and forwards the HDLC frame to Router R2 next.
    3. Router R2 de-encapsulates (removes) the IP packet from the HDLC frame, encapsulates the packet into an Ethernet
       frame that has the destination MAC address of PC2, and forwards the Ethernet frame to PC2

In summary, a leased line with HDLC creates a WAN link between two routers so that they can forward packets for the
devices on the attached LANs. The leased line itself provides the physical means to transmit the bits, in both directions.
The HDLC frames provide the means to encapsulate the network layer packet correctly so that it crosses the link between
routers.

ETHERNET AS A WAN TECHNOLOGY
As time passed, the IEEE improved Ethernet standards in ways that made Ethernet a reasonable WAN technology. For example, 
    the 1000BASE-LX standard uses single-mode fiber cabling, with support for a 5-km cable length; 
    the 1000BASE-ZX standard uses single-mode supports an even longer 70-km cable length. 

The model shown in Image7.PNG has many of the same ideas of how a telco creates a leased line, as shown earlier in 
Image3.PNG, but now with Ethernet links and devices. The customer connects to an Ethernet link using a router interface.
The (fiber) Ethernet link leaves the customer building and connects to some nearby SP(Service Provice) location called a
point of presence (PoP). Instead of a telco switch as shown in Image3.PNG, the SP uses an Ethernet switch.

NOTE For perspective about the broad world of the service provider network shown in Image7.PNG, look for more information 
about the Cisco CCNA, CCNP Service Provider, and CCIE Service Provider certifications. See www.cisco.com/go/certifications 
for more details.

ETHERNET WANs THAT CREATE A LAYER 2 SERVICE (purposes for the CCNA)
the most basic Ethernet WAN service, one that works much like an Ethernet crossover cable—just over a WAN. In other words:
    ■ Logically, behaves like a point-to-point connection between two routers
    ■ Physically, behaves as if a physical fiber Ethernet link existed between the two routers

This book refers to this particular Ethernet WAN service with a couple of the common names:
    Ethernet WAN: A generic name to differentiate it from an Ethernet LAN.

    Ethernet Line Service (E-Line): A term from the Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF) for the kind of point-to-point Ethernet WAN 
                                    service shown throughout this book.
    Ethernet emulation: A term emphasizing that the link is not a literal Ethernet link from end to end.
    Ethernet over MPLS (EoMPLS): A term that refers to Multiprotocol Label Switching(MPLS), a technology that can be used to
                                 create the Ethernet service for the customer.

So, if you can imagine two routers, with a single Ethernet link between the two routers, you understand what this particular
EoMPLS service does, as shown in Image8.PNG. The two routers, R1 and R2, connect with an EoMPLS service instead of a serial link.
Physically, each router actually connects to some SP PoP, as shown earlier in Image7.PNG, but logically, the two routers can send
Ethernet frames to each other over the link.

HOW ROUTERS ROUTE IP PACKETS USING ETHERNET EMULATION
The EoMPLS link uses Ethernet for both Layer 1 and Layer 2 functions. That means the link uses the same familiar Ethernet header
and trailer, as shown in the middle of Image9.PNG. Note that the figure shows a small cloud over the Ethernet link as a way to 
tell us that the link is an Ethernet WAN link, rather than an Ethernet LAN link.

NOTE The 802.3 headers/trailers in the figure are different at each stage! Make sure to notice the reasons in the step-by-step 
explanations that follow.

Steps 1 and 3 are unchanged:
    1. To send the IP packet to Router R1 next, PC1 encapsulates the IP packet in an Ethernet frame that has the destination MAC 
       address of R1.
    2. Router R1 de-encapsulates (removes) the IP packet from the Ethernet frame and encapsulates the packet into a new Ethernet frame,
       with a new Ethernet header and trailer. The destination MAC address is R2’s G0/0 MAC address, and the source MAC address is R1’s
       G0/1 MAC address. R1 forwards this frame over the EoMPLS service to R2 next.
    3. Router R2 de-encapsulates (removes) the IP packet from the Ethernet frame, encapsulates the packet into an Ethernet frame that has
       the destination MAC address of PC2, and forwards the Ethernet frame to PC2.

IP ROUTING
Internet Protocol (IP) focuses on the job of routing data, in the form of IP packets, from the source host to the destination host. IP 
does not concern itself with the physical transmission of data, instead relying on the lower TCP/IP layers to do the physical transmission
of the data. Instead, IP concerns itself with the logical details, rather than physical details, of delivering data. In particular, the
network layer specifies how packets travel end to end over a TCP/IP network, even when the packet crosses many different types of LAN and
WAN links.

NETWORK LAYER ROUTING(FORWARDING) LOGIC
Routers and end-user computers (called hosts in a TCP/IP network) work together to perform IP routing. The host operating system (OS) has
TCP/IP software, including the software that implements the network layer. Hosts use that software to choose where to send IP packets, often
to a nearby router. Those routers make choices of where to send the IP packet next. Together, the hosts and routers deliver the IP packet to
the correct destination, as shown in the example in Image10.PNG.

HOST FORWARDING LOGIC: SEND THE PACKET TO DEFAULT ROUTER
PC1 analyzes the destination address and realizes that PC2’s address (150.150.4.10) is not on the same LAN as PC1. So PC1’s logic tells it to
send the packet to a device whose job it is to know where to route data: a nearby router, on the same LAN, called PC1’s default router
(default gateway).

To send the IP packet to the default router, the sender sends a data-link frame across the medium to the nearby router; this frame includes the
packet in the data portion of the frame. That frame uses data-link layer (Layer 2) addressing in the data-link header to ensure that the nearby
router receives the frame.

R1 AND R2's LOGIC: ROUTING DATA ACCROSS THE NETWORK
Each router keeps an IP routing table. This table lists IP address groupings, called IP networks and IP subnets. When a router receives a packet,
it compares the packet’s destination IP address to the entries in the routing table and makes a match. This matching entry also lists directions
that tell the router where to forward the packet next

In Image10.PNG, R1 would have matched the destination address (150.150.4.10) to a routing table entry, which in turn told R1 to send the packet 
to R2 next. Similarly, R2 would have matched a routing table entry that told R2 to send the packet, over an Ethernet WAN link, to R3 next.

The routing concept works a little like driving down the freeway when approaching a big interchange. You look up and see signs for nearby towns,
telling you which exits to take to go to each town. Similarly, the router looks at the IP routing table (the equivalent of the road signs) and
directs each packet over the correct next LAN or WAN link (the equivalent of a road).

R3's LOGIC: DELIVERING DATA TO THE END DESTINATION
R3 needs to forward the packet directly to PC2, not to some other router. On the surface, that difference seems insignificant(sepele). In the
next section, when you read about how the network layer uses LANs and WANs, the significance(pentingnya) of the difference will become obvious.
