1. Imagine that you have configured the "enable secret" command, followed by the "enable
password" command, from the console. You log out of the switch and log back in at
the console. Which command defines the password that you had to enter to access
privileged mode?
a. enable password
b. enable secret
c. Neither
d. The password command, if it is configured

2. An engineer wants to set up simple password protection with no usernames for some
switches in a lab, for the purpose of keeping curious coworkers from logging in to the
lab switches from their desktop PCs. Which of the following commands would be a
useful part of that configuration?
a. A login vty mode subcommand
b. A password password console subcommand
c. A login local vty subcommand
d. A transport input ssh vty subcommand

3. An engineer had formerly configured a Cisco 2960 switch to allow Telnet access so
that the switch expected a password of mypassword from the Telnet user. The engineer then changed the configuration to support Secure Shell. Which of the following
commands could have been part of the new configuration? (Choose two answers.)
a. A username name secret password vty mode subcommand
b. A username name secret password global configuration command
c. A login local vty mode subcommand
d. A transport input ssh global configuration command

4. An engineer’s desktop PC connects to a switch at the main site. A router at the main
site connects to each branch office through a serial link, with one small router and
switch at each branch. Which of the following commands must be configured on the
branch office switches, in the listed configuration mode, to allow the engineer to telnet to the branch office switches and supply only a password to login? (Choose three
answers.)
a. The ip address command in interface configuration mode
b. The ip address command in global configuration mode
c. The ip default-gateway command in VLAN configuration mode
d. The ip default-gateway command in global configuration mode
e. The password command in console line configuration mode
f. The password command in vty line configuration mode

5. A Layer 2 switch configuration places all its physical ports into VLAN 2. The IP
addressing plan shows that address 172.16.2.250 (with mask 255.255.255.0) is reserved
for use by this new LAN switch and that 172.16.2.254 is already configured on the
router connected to that same VLAN. The switch needs to support SSH connections
into the switch from any subnet in the network. Which of the following commands are
part of the required configuration in this case? (Choose two answers.)
a. The ip address 172.16.2.250 255.255.255.0 command in interface vlan 1 configuration mode.
b. The ip address 172.16.2.250 255.255.255.0 command in interface vlan 2 configuration mode.
c. The ip default-gateway 172.16.2.254 command in global configuration mode.
d. The switch cannot support SSH because all its ports connect to VLAN 2, and the
IP address must be configured on interface VLAN 1.

6. Which of the following line subcommands tells a switch to wait until a show command’s output has completed before displaying log messages on the screen?
a. logging synchronous
b. no ip domain-lookup
c. exec-timeout 0 0
d. history size 15

1. A
2. A
3. B, C
4. 