STORING SWITCH CONFIGURATION fields
When you configure a switch, it needs to use the configuration. It also needs to be able to retain
the configuration in case the switch loses power. The following list details the four main types of
memory found in Cisco switches, as well as the most common use of each type(Image10.PNG):

    ■ RAM: Sometimes called DRAM, for dynamic random-access memory, RAM is used
           by the switch just as it is used by any other computer: for working storage. The running
           (active) configuration file is stored here.

    ■ Flash memory: Either a chip inside the switch or a removable memory card, flash memory stores
                    fully functional Cisco IOS images and is the default location where the switch
                    gets its Cisco IOS at boot time. Flash memory also can be used to store any other files,
                    including backup copies of configuration files.
    
    ■ ROM: Read-only memory (ROM) stores a bootstrap (or boothelper) program that is loaded when the switch
           first powers on. This bootstrap program then finds the full Cisco IOS
           image and manages the process of loading Cisco IOS into RAM, at which point Cisco
           IOS takes over operation of the switch.
    
    ■ NVRAM: Nonvolatile RAM (NVRAM) stores the initial or startup configuration file that
             is used when the switch is first powered on and when the switch is reloaded.

when the switch is on, the first software that's it's look up is the NVRAM, then the ROM, and the FLASH MEMORY.
switches use multiple configuration files—one file for the initial configuration used when powering on, and
another configuration file for the active, currently used running configuration as stored in RAM. Table 4-5 
lists the names of these two files, their purpose, and their storage location.

Table 4-5 Names and Purposes of the Two Main Cisco IOS Configuration Files
Configuration           Purpose                                             Where It Is Stored
Filename
―――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
startup-config          Stores the initial configuration used anytime the   NVRAM
                        switch reloads Cisco IOS.

running-config          Stores the currently used configuration commands.   RAM
                        This file changes dynamically when someone enters
                        commands in configuration mode.

Essentially, when you use configuration mode, you change only the running-config file. This means that the 
configuration example earlier in this chapter (Image8.PNG) updates only the running-config file. However, if
the switch lost power right after that example, all that configuration would be lost. If you want to keep that
configuration, you have to copy the running-config file into NVRAM, overwriting the old startup-config file.

Image11.PNG demonstrates that commands used in configuration mode change only the running configuration in RAM.
The example shows the following concepts and steps:

    Step 1. The example begins with both the running and startup-config having the same
            hostname, per the hostname hannah command.
    Step 2. The hostname is changed in configuration mode using the hostname harold
            command.
    Step 3. The show running-config and show startup-config commands show the fact
            that the hostnames are now different, with the hostname harold command
            found only in the running-config.

COPYING AND ERASING CONFIGURATION FILES
In short, the EXEC command copy running-config startup-config backs up the running-config to the startup-config file.
This command overwrites the current startup-config file with what is currently in the running-configuration file.
you can erase the startup-config file using three
different commands:
    write erase
    erase startup-config
    erase nvram:

Note that Cisco IOS does not have a command that erases the contents of the runningconfig file. To clear out the running
-config file, simply erase the startup-config file, and then reload the switch, and the running-config will be empty at
the end of the process.