PASSWORD SECURITY FOR CLI ACCESS FROM THE CONSOLE
by default, a switch allows console access only. By default, the console requires no password at all, and
no password to reach enable mode for users that happened to connect from the console. The reason is that
if you have access to the physical console port of the switch, you already have pretty much complete 
control over the switch. You could literally get out your screwdriver and walk off with it, or you could
unplug the power, or follow well-published procedures to go through password recovery to break into the CLI
and then configure anything you want to configure.

Simple passwords can be configured at two points in the login process from the console: when the user 
connects from the console, and when any user moves to enable mode (using the enable EXEC command). 

Image6.PNG shows the additional configuration commands that were configured prior to collecting the output
in Image4.PNG. The output holds an excerpt(kutipan) from the EXEC command show running-config, which lists the 
current configuration in the switch.

Working from top to bottom, note that the first configuration command listed by the show running-config command
sets the switch’s hostname to Certskills1. You might have noticed that the command prompts in Image4.PNG all 
began with Certskills1, and that’s why the command prompt begins with the hostname of the switch.

Next, note that the lines with a ! in them are comment lines, both in the text of this book and in the real
switch CLI.

The enable secret love configuration command defines the password that all users must use to reach enable mode.
So, no matter whether users connect from the console, Telnet, or SSH, they would use the password love when
prompted for a password after typing the enable EXEC command.

Finally, the last three lines configure the console password. The first line (line console 0) is the command 
that identifies the console, basically meaning “these next commands apply to the console only.” The login 
command tells IOS to perform simple password checking (at the console). Remember, by default, the switch does
not ask for a password for console users. Finally, the password faith command defines the password the console
user must type when prompted.

CLI HELP FEATURES
Table 4-2 summarizes command-recall help options available at the CLI. Note that, in the first column, command
represents any command. Likewise, parm represents a command’s parameter. For example, the second row lists
command ?, which means that commands such as show ? and copy ? would list help for the show and copy commands,
respectively.

Table 4-2 Cisco IOS Software Command Help

    What You Enter          What Help You Get
    ――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
    ?                       Provides help for all commands available in this mode.

    command ?               With a space between the command and the ?, the switch lists text to
                            describe all the first parameter options for the command.

    com?                    Lists commands that start with com.

    command parm?           Lists all parameters beginning with the parameter typed so far. (Notice
                            that there is no space between parm and the ?.)

    command                 Pressing the Tab key causes IOS to spell out the rest of the word,

    parm<Tab>               assuming that you have typed enough of the word so there is only one
                            option that begins with that string of characters.

    command parm1 ?         If a space is inserted before the question mark, the CLI lists all the next
                            parameters and gives a brief explanation of each.

The information supplied by using help depends on the CLI mode. For example, when ? is entered in user mode, the
commands allowed in user mode are displayed, but commands available only in enable mode (not in user mode) are
not displayed. Also, help is available in configuration mode, which is the mode used to configure the switch. In
fact, configuration mode has many different subconfiguration modes. So, you can get help for the commands 
available in each configuration submode as well. 

Cisco IOS stores the commands that you enter in a history buffer, storing ten commands by default. The CLI allows
you to move backward and forward in the historical list of commands and then edit the command before reissuing it.
These key sequences can help you use the CLI more quickly on the exams. Table 4-3 lists the commands used to
manipulate previously entered commands.

THE DEBUG AND SHOW COMMANDS
The show command has a large variety of options, and with those options, you can find the status of almost every
feature of Cisco IOS. Essentially, the show command lists the currently known facts about the switch’s operational
status. The only work the switch does in reaction to show commands is to find the current status and list the
information in messages sent to the user.

The debug command also tells the user details about the operation of the switch. However, while the show command
lists status information at one instant of time—more like a photograph—the debug command acts more like a live
video camera feed. Once you issue a debug command, IOS remembers, issuing messages that any switch user can choose
to see. The console sees these messages by default. Most of the commands used throughout this book to verify 
operation of switches and routers are show commands.

CONFIGURING(MEMBENTUK SUSUNAN) CISCO IOS SOFTWARE
Configuration mode is another mode for the Cisco CLI, similar to user mode and privileged mode. However, not one 
of the commands in user or privileged mode changes the switch’s configuration. Configuration mode accepts 
configuration commands—commands that tell the switch the details of what to do and how to do it. Image7.PNG 
illustrates the relationships among configuration mode, user EXEC mode, and privileged EXEC mode. 

Commands entered in configuration mode update the active configuration file. These changes to the configuration 
occur immediately each time you press the Enter key at the end of a command. Be careful when you enter a 
configuration command!

CONFIGURATION SUBMODES AND MODES 
when using configuration mode, you move from the initial mode—global configuration mode(enter the configure terminal
command)—into subcommand modes. Context-setting commands move you from one configuration subcommand mode, or context, to 
another. These context-setting commands tell the switch the topic about which you will enter the next few configuration
commands.

For instance, the interface command is one of the most commonly used context-setting configuration commands. For example,
the CLI user could enter interface configuration mode by entering the interface FastEthernet 0/1 configuration command.
Asking for help in interface configuration mode displays only commands that are useful when configuring Ethernet interfaces.
Commands used in this context are called subcommands—or, in this specific case, interface subcommands. For now, consider 
Image8.PNG, which shows the following:
    ■ Movement from enable mode to global configuration mode by using the configure
    terminal EXEC command
    ■ Using a hostname Fred global configuration command to configure the switch’s name
    ■ Movement from global configuration mode to console line configuration mode (using the
    line console 0 command)
    ■ Setting the console’s simple password to hope (using the password hope line
    subcommand)
    ■ Movement from console configuration mode to interface configuration mode (using the
    interface type number command)
    ■ Setting the speed to 100 Mbps for interface Fa0/1 (using the speed 100 interface
    subcommand)
    ■ Movement from interface configuration mode back to global configuration mode (using
    the exit command)

Table 4-4 shows the most common command prompts in configuration mode, the names of
those modes, and the context-setting commands used to reach those modes.

Table 4-4 Common Switch Configuration Modes
Prompt                  Name of Mode            Context-Setting Command(s) to Reach
                                                This Mode
―――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
hostname(config)#       Global                  None—first mode after configure terminal
hostname(config-line)#  Line                    line console 0
                                                line vty 0 15
hostname(config-if)#    Interface               interface type number
hostname(vlan)#         VLAN                    vlan number

For now, Image9.PNG shows most of the navigation between global configuration mode and the four configuration submodes listed
in Table 4-4.