1. Which of the following statements describes part of the process of how a switch
decides to forward a frame destined for a known unicast MAC address?
a. It compares the unicast destination address to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
b. It compares the unicast source address to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
c. It forwards the frame out all interfaces in the same VLAN except for the incoming
interface.
d. It compares the destination IP address to the destination MAC address.
e. It compares the frame’s incoming interface to the source MAC entry in the MAC
address table.

2. Which of the following statements describes part of the process of how a LAN switch
decides to forward a frame destined for a broadcast MAC address?
a. It compares the unicast destination address to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
b. It compares the unicast source address to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
c. It recognizes the destination MAC address as the special case of the Ethernet
broadcast address.
d. It compares the destination IP address to the destination MAC address.
e. It compares the frame’s incoming interface to the source MAC entry in the MAC
address table.

3. Which of the following statements best describes what a switch does with a frame
destined for an unknown unicast address?
a. It forwards out all interfaces in the same VLAN except for the incoming interface.
b. It forwards the frame out the one interface identified by the matching entry in the
MAC address table.
c. It compares the destination IP address to the destination MAC address.
d. It compares the frame’s incoming interface to the source MAC entry in the MAC
address table.

4. Which of the following comparisons does a switch make when deciding whether a
new MAC address should be added to its MAC address table?
a. It compares the unicast destination address to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
b. It compares the unicast source address to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
c. It compares the VLAN ID to the bridging, or MAC address, table.
d. It compares the destination IP address’s ARP cache entry to the bridging, or MAC
address, table.

5. A Cisco Catalyst switch has 24 10/100 ports, numbered 0/1 through 0/24. Ten PCs
connect to the 10 lowest numbered ports, with those PCs working and sending data
over the network. The other ports are not connected to any device. Which of the following answers lists facts displayed by the show interfaces status command?
a. Port Ethernet 0/1 is in a connected state.
b. Port Fast Ethernet 0/11 is in a connected state.
c. Port Fast Ethernet 0/5 is in a connected state.
d. Port Ethernet 0/15 is in a notconnected state.

6. Consider the following output from a Cisco Catalyst switch:
SW1# show mac address-table dynamic
Mac Address Table
-------------------------------------------
Vlan    Mac Address     Type        Ports
----    -----------     --------    -----
1       02AA.AAAA.AAAA  DYNAMIC     Gi0/1
1       02BB.BBBB.BBBB  DYNAMIC     Gi0/2
1       02CC.CCCC.CCCC  DYNAMIC     Gi0/3
Total Mac Addresses for this criterion: 3
Which of the following answers is true about this switch?
a. The output proves that port Gi0/2 connects directly to a device that uses address
02BB.BBBB.BBBB.
b. The switch has learned three MAC addresses since the switch powered on.
c. The three listed MAC addresses were learned based on the destination MAC
address of frames forwarded by the switch.
d. 02CC.CCCC.CCCC was learned from the source MAC address of a frame that
entered port Gi0/3.

1. A
2. C
3. A 
4. B
5. D => YOU WRONG HERE (The answer: C)
6. D 