CONFIGURING IPV4 ON A SWITCH(Image12.PNG)
following steps list the commands used to configure IPv4 on a switch, assuming that the IP
address is configured to be in VLAN 1:
    Step 1. Use the "interface vlan 1" command in global configuration mode to enter interface VLAN 1 configuration mode.
    Step 2. Use the "ip address ip-address mask" command in interface configuration mode to assign an IP address and mask.
    Step 3. Use the "no shutdown" command in interface configuration mode to enable the VLAN 1 interface if it is not 
            already enabled.
    Step 4. Add the "ip default-gateway ip-address" command in global configuration mode to configure the default gateway.
    Step 5. (Optional) Add the "ip name-server ip-address1 ip-address2 …" command in global configuration mode to configure
            the switch to use Domain Name System (DNS) to resolve names into their matching IP address.

the [no] shutdown command. To administratively enable an interface on a switch, use the no shutdown interface subcommand; 
to disable an interface, use the shutdown interface subcommand. This command can be used on the physical Ethernet interfaces
that the switch uses to switch Ethernet messages in addition to the VLAN interface shown here in this example.

CONFIGURING A SWITCH TO LEARN ITS IP ADDRESS WITH DHCP
The switch can also use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) to dynamically learn its IPv4 settings. Basically, all you
have to do is tell the switch to use DHCP on the interface(on VLAN where your put your IP Management) and enable the interface.
Assuming that DHCP works in this network, the switch will learn all its settings:
    Step 1. Enter VLAN 1 configuration mode using the "interface vlan 1" global configuration command, and enable the interface 
            using the "no shutdown" command as necessary.
    Step 2. Assign an IP address and mask using the "ip address dhcp" interface subcommand.

VERIFYING IPV4 ON A SWITCH
The switch IPv4 configuration can be checked in several places. 
    First, you can always look at the current configuration using the "show running-config" command.
    Second, you can look at the IP address and mask information using the "show interfaces vlan x" command, which shows detailed 
            status information about the VLAN interface in VLAN x. 
            The output of the "show interfaces vlan 1" command lists two very important details related
            to switch IP addressing. First, this show command lists the interface status of the VLAN 1
            interface—in this case, “up and up.” If the VLAN 1 interface is not up, the switch cannot use
            its IP address to send and receive management traffic. Notably, if you forget to issue the "no
            shutdown" command, the VLAN 1 interface remains in its default shutdown state and is listed
            as “administratively down” in the show command output

    Finally, if using DHCP, use the "show dhcp lease" command to see the (temporarily) leased IP address and other parameters. 
        Second, note that the output lists the interface’s IP address on the third line. If you statically
        configure the IP address, the IP address will always be listed; however, if you use DHCP and DHCP fails,
        the show interfaces vlan x command will not list an IP address here. When DHCP works, you can see the IP
        address with the "show interfaces vlan 1" command, but that output does not remind you whether the address is
        either statically configured or DHCP leased. So it does take a little extra effort to make sure you know
        whether the address is statically configured or DHCP-learned on the VLAN interface.
    (Note that the switch does not store the DHCP-learned IP configuration in running-config file)

THE LOGGING SYNCHRONOUS, EXEC-TIMEOUT, AND NO IP DOMAIN-LOOKUP COMMANDS
they can be useful settings to reduce your frustration when using the console of a switch or router. IOS (by default) displays 
these syslog messages on the console’s screen at any time—including right in the middle of a command you are entering, or in the
middle of the output of a show command. Having a bunch of text show up unexpectedly can be a bit annoying.

You could simply disable the feature that sends these messages to the console and then reenable the feature later using the "no 
logging console" and "logging console" global configuration commands. IOS supplies a reasonable compromise, telling the switch to
display syslog messages only at more convenient times, such as at the end of output from a show command. To do so, just configure
the "logging synchronous" console line subcommand, which basically tells IOS to synchronize the syslog message display with the 
messages requested using show commands.

Another way to improve the user experience at the console is to control timeouts of the login session from the console or when 
using Telnet or SSH. By default, the switch automatically disconnects console and vty (Telnet and SSH) users after 5 minutes of 
inactivity. The "exec-timeout minutes seconds" line subcommand enables you to set the length of that inactivity timer. In the lab
(but not in production), you might want to use the special value of 0 minutes and 0 seconds meaning “never time out.”

Finally, IOS has an interesting combination of features that can make you wait for a minute or so when you mistype a command. 
First, IOS tries to use DNS name resolution on IP hostnames—a generally useful feature. If you mistype a command, however, IOS
thinks you want to telnet to a host by that name. With all default settings in the switch, the switch tries to resolve the hostname,
cannot find a DNS server, and takes about a minute to time out and give you control of the CLI again. To avoid this problem, 
configure the "no ip domain-lookup" global configuration command, which disables IOS’s attempt to resolve the hostname into an IP address.