The work performed by a networking device can be divided into three broad categories. The first and most
obvious, called the data plane, is the work a switch does to forward frames generated by the devices
connected to the switch. In other words, the data plane is the main purpose of the switch. Second, the
control plane refers to the configuration and processes that control and change the choices made by the
switch’s data plane. The network engineer can control which interfaces are enabled and disabled, which
ports run at which speeds, how Spanning Tree blocks some ports to prevent loops, and so on.

The third category, the management plane, is the topic of this chapter. The management plane deals with
managing the device itself.

SECURING THE SWITCH CLI
Securing the CLI includes protecting access to enable mode, because from enable mode, an attacker could
reload the switch or change the configuration. Protecting user mode is also important, because attackers
can see the status of the switch, learn about the network, and find new ways to attack the network.

Note that all remote access and management protocols require that the switch IP configuration be completed
and working. A switch’s IPv4 configuration has nothing to do with how a Layer 2 switch forwards Ethernet 
frames (as discussed in Chapter 5, “Analyzing Ethernet LAN Switching”). Instead, to support Telnet and 
Secure Shell (SSH) into a switch, the switch needs to be configured with an IP address. 

SECURING USER AND PRIVILEGED MODE WITH SIMPLE PASSWORDS (Practical1)
By default, Cisco Catalyst switches allow full access from the console but no access via Telnet or SSH. 
Using default settings, a console user can move into user mode and then privileged mode with no passwords 
required; however, default settings prevent remote users from accessing even user mode.

Most people use a simple shared password for access to lab gear. This method uses a password only—with no 
username—with one password for console users and a different password for Telnet users. Console users must
supply the console password, as configured in console line configuration mode. Telnet users must supply the
Telnet password, also called the vty password, so called because the configuration sits in vty line 
configuration mode. Image1.PNG summarizes these options for using shared passwords from the perspective of the
user logging in to the switch.

In addition, Cisco switches protect enable mode (also called privileged mode) with yet another shared password
called the enable password. From the perspective of the network engineer connecting to the CLI of the switch,
once in user mode, the user types the enable EXEC command. This command prompts the user for this enable 
password; if the user types the correct password, IOS moves the user to enable mode. The command to configure the
enable password is a global configuration command: enable secret password-value.

Image2.PNG shows an example of the user experience of logging in to a switch from the console when the shared
console password and the shared enable password have both been set. Note that the example shows the password 
text as if typed (faith and love), along with the enable command that moves the user from user mode to enable
mode. In reality, the switch hides the passwords when typed, to prevent someone from reading over your shoulder
to see the passwords.

The configuration for these three passwords does not require a lot of work. First, the console and vty password
configuration sets the password based on the context: console mode for the console (line con 0), and vty line
configuration mode for the Telnet password (line vty 0 15). Then inside console mode and vty mode, respectively,
the two commands in each mode are as follows(Image3.PNG):
    password password-value: Defines the actual password used on the console or vty
    login: Tells IOS to enable the use of a simple shared password (with no username) on this
           line (console or vty), so that the switch asks the user for a password

NOTE Older IOS versions used the command enable password password-value to set the enable password, and that 
command still exists in IOS. However, the enable secret command is much more secure. 

The configuration checklist for shared passwords for the console, Telnet, and enable passwords is:
    Step 1. Configure the enable password with the "enable secret password-value"
            command.
    Step 2. Configure the console password:
            A. Use the "line con 0" command to enter console configuration mode.
            B. Use the "password password-value" subcommand to set the value of the
               console password.
            C. Use the "login" subcommand to enable console password security using a
               simple password.
    Step 3. Configure the Telnet (vty) password:
            A. Use the "line vty 0 15" command to enter vty configuration mode for all 16
               vty lines (numbered 0 through 15).
            B. Use the "password password-value" subcommand to set the value of the
               console password.
            C. Use the "login" subcommand to enable console password security using a
               simple password.

Image4.PNG shows the configuration process as noted in the configuration checklist, along with setting the enable
secret password.

SECURING USER MODE ACCESS WITH LOCAL USERNAMES AND PASSWORDS (Practical2)
Cisco switches support two other login security methods that both use per-user username/password pairs instead of a
shared password with no username. One method, referred to as local usernames and passwords, configures the username/
password pairs locally—that is, in the switch’s configuration. Switches support this local username/password option for the
console, for Telnet, and even for SSH, but do not replace the enable password used to reach enable mode.

(Image5.PNG): To create these, repeatedly use the "username name secret password" global configuration command. Then, to enable
this different type of console or Telnet security, simply enable this login security method with the "login local" line. Basically,
this command means “use the local list of usernames for login.” You can also use the no password command (without even typing in 
the password) to clean up any remaining password subcommands from console or vty mode because these commands are not needed when 
using local usernames and passwords.

The following checklist details the commands to configure local username login, mainly as a method for easier study and review:
    Step 1. Use the "username name secret password" global configuration command to
            add one or more username/password pairs on the local switch.
    Step 2. Configure the console to use locally configured username/password pairs:
            A. Use the "line con 0" command to enter console configuration mode.
            B. Use the "login local" subcommand to enable the console to prompt for both
               username and password, checked versus the list of local usernames/passwords.
            C. (Optional) Use the "no password" subcommand to remove any existing simple shared passwords, just for good housekeeping of the configuration file.
    Step 3. Configure Telnet (vty) to use locally configured username/password pairs.
            A. Use the "line vty 0 15" command to enter vty configuration mode for all 16
               vty lines (numbered 0 through 15).
            B. Use the "login local" subcommand to enable the switch to prompt for both
               username and password for all inbound Telnet users, checked versus the list
               of local usernames/passwords.
            C. (Optional) Use the "no password" subcommand to remove any existing simple shared passwords, just for good housekeeping of the configuration file.