= Many networking technologies are based on packet switching, which involves the creation 
  of small chunks of data to be sent over a network
  = Even though packet appears in the name of this method, the data items sent between 
    networked devices are most generically called messages 
  = Packet is one of a variety of similar words that are used in different contexts 
    to refer to messages sent from one device to another
= The most common terms used for messages are the following:
  = Packet This term is considered by many to correctly refer to a message sent by protocols 
    operating at the network layer of the OSI Reference Model. So you will commonly see people
    refer to IP packets
  = Datagram This term is basically synonymous with packet and is also used to refer to network 
    layer technologies. It is also often used to refer to a message that is sent at a higher level 
    of the OSI Reference Model (more often than packet is)
  = Frame This term is most commonly associated with messages that travel at low levels of the OSI 
    Reference Model. In particular, it is most commonly seen used in reference to data link layer messages.
    It is occasionally also used to refer to physical layer messages, when message formatting is performed 
    by a layer 1 technology. A frame gets its name from the fact that it is created by taking higher-level 
    packets or datagrams and “framing” them with additional header information needed at the lower level
  = Cell => Frames and packets, in general, can be of variable length, depending on their contents; in contrast, 
    a cell is most often a message that is fixed in size. For example, the fixed-length, 53-byte messages sent 
    in ATM are called cells. Like frames, cells are usually used by technologies operating at the lower layers 
    of the OSI model
  = Protocol Data Unit (PDU) and Service Data Unit (SDU) These are the formal terms used in the OSI Reference Model 
    to describe protocol messages. A PDU at layer N is a message sent between protocols at layer N. It consists of
    layer N header information and an encapsulated message from layer N+1, which is called both the layer N SDU and 
    the layer N+1 PDU. After you stop scratching your head, see the “Data Encapsulation, Protocol Data Units (PDUs),
    and Service Data Units (SDUs)” section in Chapter 5 for a discussion of this
= The formal OSI terms for messages are protocol data unit (PDU) and service data unit (SDU)
= Messages are the structures used to send information over networks.
  = The most important way that messages differ is not in what they are called but in terms of their content
= Every protocol uses a special formatting method that determines the structure of the messages it employs
= In generic terms, each message contains the following three elements (see Figure 1-3):
  = Header => Information that is placed before the actual data. The header normally contains a small number of 
    control-information bytes, which are used to communicate important facts about the data that the message 
    contains and how it is to be interpreted and used
  = Data The actual data to be transmitted, often called the payload of the message (metaphorically borrowing a 
    term from the space industry!). Most messages contain some data of one form or another, but some messages 
    actually contain none. They are used for only control and communication purposes. For example, these may be used to 
    set up or terminate a logical connection before data is sent
  = Footer Information that is placed after the data. There is no real difference between the header and the footer, 
    as both generally contain control fields. The term trailer is also sometimes used
= (02_Notes_3.JPG)