= Since the header and footer can contain both control and information fields, you might rightly 
  wonder what the point is of having a separate footer anyway?
  = One reason is that some types of control information are calculated using the values of the data itself
  = In some cases, it is more efficient to perform this computation as the data payload is being sent, and 
    then transmit the result after the payload in a footer
  = A good example of a field often found in a footer is redundancy data such as cyclic redundancy check (CRC) 
    code, which can be used for error detection by the receiving device
= The general format of a networking message consists of a header, followed by the data or payload of the message, 
  followed optionally by a footer. Header and footer information is functionally the same except for its position 
  in the message; footer fields are only sometimes used, especially in cases where the data in the field is 
  calculated based on the values of the data being transmitted.
= Generally speaking, any particular protocol is concerned with only its own header
  = just as a delivery person worries only about driving the truck and not so much about what it contains
= a message handled by a particular protocol is said to be its PDU; 
= the data it carries in its payload is its SDU
= The SDU of a lower-layer protocol is usually a PDU of a higher-layer protocol
= One is simply addressing the message—putting an address on it so that the system knows where it is supposed to go
= Another is transmitting the message, which is sending it to its intended recipient
= Bearing this analogy in mind, consider these three kinds of message transmissions, which are illustrated in Figure 1-4:
  (02_Notes_4.JPG)
  = Unicast Messages These are messages that are sent from one device to another device; they are not intended for others.
    If you have a friend at this social event, this is the equivalent of pulling him aside for a private conversation. Of course,
    there is still the possibility of someone else at the event overhearing your conversation—or even eavesdropping on it. The 
    same is true in networking as well—addressing a message to a particular computer doesn’t guarantee that others won’t also read it;
    it’s just that they normally will not do so
  = Broadcast Messages As the name suggests, these messages are sent to every device on a network. You use them when you need to 
    communicate a piece of information to everyone on the network, or when the sending station needs to send it to just one recipient, 
    but doesn’t know its address. For example, suppose a new arrival at the social gathering saw in the parking lot a blue sedan with its
    lights left on. She does not know who the car belongs to. The best way to communicate this information is to broadcast it by having 
    the host make an announcement that will be heard by all, including the vehicle’s owner. In networks, broadcast messages are used for a 
    variety of purposes, including finding the locations of particular stations or the devices that manage different services
  = Multicast Messages These are a compromise between the previous two types. Multicast messages are sent to a group of stations that meet 
    a particular set of criteria. These stations are usually related to each other in some way. For example, they serve a common function 
    or are set up into a particular multicast group. (Note that you can also consider broadcast messages to be a special case of multicast in which
    the group is “everyone.”) 
    = Back to our analogy: This would be somewhat like a group of friends who go to this large social hall and then stay together in a 
      small discussion group—or perhaps use radios to talk to each other from a distance. Multicasting requires special techniques that make 
      clear who is in the intended group of recipients