= Since these transmission methods differ based on how many and which devices receive the transmission, 
  they are tied directly to the methods used for addressing, as follows:
  = Unicast Addressing Unicast delivery requires that a message should be addressed to a specific recipient. 
    This is the most common type of messaging, so this addressing capability is present in almost all protocols
  = Broadcast Addressing Broadcasts are normally implemented via a special address that is reserved for that 
    function. Whenever devices see a message sent to that address, they all interpret it as “This message goes to everyone.”
  = Multicast Addressing Multicasts are the most complex type of message because they require a means of identifying a 
    set of specific devices that will receive a message. It is often necessary to create several such groups, which may or may not partially
    overlap in their membership. Some mechanism is needed to manage which devices are in which groups
= Three basic methods are used to address and transmit data between networked devices. A unicast transmission goes from
  one device to exactly one other; this is the most common method used for most message transactions. 
= A broadcast transmission is sent from one device to all connected devices on a network. 
= A multicast transmission is addressed and sent to a select group of devices
= one special case in the field of addressing is worth mentioning. In some networks or links, only two devices are 
  connected together, forming what is often called a point-to-point network
= The following two common terms are used to describe these different approaches to setting up a network:
  = Peer-to-Peer Networking In a strict peer-to-peer networking setup, every computer is an equal, a peer in the network. Each machine
    can have resources that are shared with any other machine. There is no assigned role for any particular device, and each of the
    devices usually runs similar software. Any device can and will send requests to any other, as illustrated in 02_Notes_5.JPG
  = Client-Server Networking In this design, a small number of computers are designated as centralized servers and are given the task 
    of providing services to a larger number of user machines called clients, as shown in Figure 02_Notes_6.JPG
    = The servers are usually powerful computers with a lot of memory and storage space, and fast network connections
    = The clients are typically smaller, regular computers like PCs; they are optimized for human use
= The choice of client-server or peer-to-peer is sometimes called choosing a structural model for the network
= Peer-to-peer networking has primary advantages of simplicity and low cost, meaning that it has traditionally been used on small networks
= Client-server networking provides advantages in the areas of performance, scalability, security, and reliability, but is more complicated 
  and expensive to set up (suites up to larger network)
= Many people, including me, like to divide the many kinds of networks in existence into three general classes, as follows:
  = Local Area Networks (LANs) Networks that connect computers that are relatively close to each other—generally, within the same room or 
    building. When most people think about networking PCs and other small computers, this is what they usually have in mind. The vast majority 
    of regular LANs connect using cables, so the term LAN by itself usually implies a wired LAN, but not always
  = Wireless LANs (WLANs) LANs that connect devices without wires, using radio frequencies or light. WLANs can be entirely wireless, but most
    are not. They usually connect wireless devices to each other as well as to the wired portion of the network. Due to the limits of most wireless
    technologies, WLANs usually connect devices that are very close to each other, generally within a few hundred feet at most
  = Wide Area Networks (WANs) Networks that connect devices or other networks over a greater distance than that which is practical for LANs. 
    If the distance between devices can be measured in miles, you will generally use WAN and not LAN technology to link them. 
= WANs are used to link physically distant LANs
  = For example, a company with locations in two different cities would normally set up a LAN in each building and then connect them together in a WAN
= Networks are often divided by size and general communication method into three classes. Local area networks (LANs) generally connect proximate devices, 
  usually using cables. Wireless LANs (WLANs) are like cabled LANs but use radio frequency or light technology to connect devices without wires. Wide area
  networks (WANs) connect distant devices or LANs to each other. Campus area networks (CANs) and metropolitan area networks (MANs) fall between LANs and 
  WANs in terms of overall size. Personal area networks (PANs) are like very small LANs and often appear as wireless PANs (WPANs).