= Over time, a collection of terms has evolved in the networking world to describe the relative sizes of larger 
  and smaller networks. Some of the most common ones are as follows:
  = Network This is the least specific of the terms mentioned here. Basically, a network can be pretty much any size,
    from two devices to thousands. When networks get very large, however, and are clearly comprised of smaller 
    networks connected together, they are often no longer called networks but internetworks, as you will see momentarily.
    Despite this, it is fairly common to hear someone refer to something like “Microsoft’s corporate network,” which 
    obviously contains thousands or even tens of thousands of machines.
  = Subnetwork (Subnet) A subnetwork is a portion of a network, or a network that is part of a larger internetwork. This 
    term is also a rather subjective one; subnetworks can be rather large when they are part of a network that is very large.
    The abbreviated term subnet can refer generically to a subnetwork, but also has a specific meaning in the context of 
    TCP/IP addressing
  = Segment (Network Segment) A segment is a small section of a network. In some contexts, a segment is the same as a 
    subnetwork and the terms are used interchangeably. More often, however, the term segment implies something smaller than a
    subnetwork. Networks are often designed so that, for the sake of efficiency, computers that are related to each other or 
    that are used by the same groups of people are put on the same network segment.
= Some LAN technologies—including Ethernet—use the term segment to refer specifically to a collection of geographically 
  proximate machines that are connected directly to each other, either by a single cable or single device such as a hub
= An important example of the latter definition is TCP/IP, in which a network usually refers to a collection of machines that
  are linked at layer 2 of the OSI Reference Model, using technologies like Ethernet or Token Ring, as well as interconnection
  devices such as hubs and switches
= An internetwork is formed when these networks are linked together at layer 3, using routers that pass IP datagrams between networks
= Traditionally, a segment referred to a specific cable
  = The earliest forms of Ethernet used coaxial cables, and the coaxial cable segment was shared and became the collision domain for the network
= Thus today a segment can refer either to a specific piece of cable or to a collection of cables connected electrically that represent a
  single collision domain
= Collision domain is a term that refers generally to a collection of hardware devices in which only one can transmit at a time
= The term intranet was coined to refer to an internal
= network that functioned like a private Internet. It comes from the prefix intra, which means within. In fact, most intranets are internetworks 
  as well
= If an intranet is extended to allow access to it not only by people or groups strictly from within the organization, but also by people or groups
  outside the main company, this is sometimes called an extranet. Extra, of course, is a prefix that means outside, or beyond
= So, an extranet is a type of internal, private Internet that, well, isn’t entirely internal
= An extranet is an extended intranet, which is really a type of internet that works like the Internet