Networks work correctly because the various devices and software follow the rules. Those
rules come in the form of standards and protocols, which are agreements of a particular (tertentu)
part of how a network should work.

Networking models define a structure and different categories (layers) of standards and protocols. 
As new standards and protocols emerge over time, networkers can think of those new details in the
context of a working model.

You can think of a networking model as you think of a set of architectural plans for building a house.
A lot of different people work on building your house, such as framers, electricians, bricklayers, 
painters, and so on. The blueprint helps ensure that all the different pieces of the house work together
as a whole. Similarly, the people who make networking products, and the people who use those products to
build their own computer networks, follow a particular networking model. That networking model defines
rules about how each part of the network should work, as well as how the parts should work together so
that the entire network functions correctly.

Today, TCP/IP rules as the most pervasive networking model in use. You can find support for TCP/IP on
practically every computer operating system (OS) in existence today, from mobile phones to mainframe 
computers. Every network built using Cisco products today supports TCP/IP. And not surprisingly, the CCNA
exam focuses heavily on TCP/IP. This chapter uses TCP/IP for one of its main purposes: to present various
concepts about networking using the context of the different roles and functions in the TCP/IP model.

A networking model, sometimes also called either a networking architecture or networking blueprint, refers
to a comprehensive set of documents. Individually, each document describes one small function required for
a network; collectively, these documents define everything that should happen for a computer network to work.
Some documents define a protocol, which is a set of logical rules that devices must follow to communicate. 
Other documents define some physical requirements for networking. For example, a document could define the 
voltage and current levels used on a particular cable when transmitting data.

You can think of a networking model as you think of an architectural blueprint for building a house. Sure, 
you can build a house without the blueprint. However, the blueprint can ensure that the house has the right
foundation and structure so that it will not fall down, and it has the correct hidden spaces to accommodate
the plumbing, electrical, gas, and so on. Also, the many different people that build the house using the
blueprint—such as framers, electricians, bricklayers, painters, and so on—know that if they follow the 
blueprint, their part of the work should not cause problems for the other workers. Similarly, you could build
your own network—write your own software, build your own networking cards, and so on—to create a network.
However, it is much easier to simply buy and use products that already conform to some well-known networking
model or blueprint. Because the networking product vendors build their products with some networking model
in mind, their products should work well together.

Go to the History folder to comprehensive this networking model 