COMMON LAYER 1 PROBLEMS ON WORKING INTERFACES
When the interface reaches the connect (up/up) state, the switch considers the interface to be working. The switch, of course,
tries to use the interface, and at the same time, the switch keeps various interface counters. These interface counters can 
help identify problems that can occur even though the interface is in a connect state, like issues related to the duplex 
mismatch problem that was just described. This section explains some of the related concepts and a few of the most common
problems.

Whenever the physical transmission has problems, the receiving device might receive a frame whose bits have changed values.
These frames do not pass the error detection logic as implemented in the FCS field in the Ethernet trailer, as covered in
Chapter 2. The receiving device discards the frame and counts it as some kind of input error. Cisco switches list this error
as a CRC error, as highlighted in Image10.PNG. (Cyclic redundancy check [CRC] is a term related to how the frame check sequence
[FCS] math detects an error.)

The example highlights several of the counters as examples so that you can start to understand which ones point to problems and
which ones are just counting normal events that are not problems. The following list shows a short description of each 
highlighted counter, in the order shown in the example:
    Runts: Frames that did not meet the minimum frame size requirement (64 bytes, including
           the 18-byte destination MAC, source MAC, type, and FCS). Can be caused by collisions.
    Giants: Frames that exceed the maximum frame size requirement (1518 bytes, including
            the 18-byte destination MAC, source MAC, type, and FCS).
    Input Errors: A total of many counters, including runts, giants, no buffer, CRC, frame,
                  overrun, and ignored counts.
    CRC: Received frames that did not pass the FCS math; can be caused by collisions.
    Frame: Received frames that have an illegal format, for example, ending with a partial
           byte; can be caused by collisions.
    Packets Output: Total number of packets (frames) forwarded out the interface.
    Output Errors: Total number of packets (frames) that the switch port tried to transmit,
                   but for which some problem occurred.
    Collisions: Counter of all collisions that occur when the interface is transmitting a frame.
    Late Collisions: The subset of all collisions that happen after the 64th byte of the frame
                     has been transmitted. (In a properly working Ethernet LAN, collisions should occur within
                     the first 64 bytes; late collisions today often point to a duplex mismatch.)

Note that many of these counters occur as part of the CSMA/CD process used when half duplex is enabled. Collisions occur as a
normal part of the half-duplex logic imposed by CSMA/CD, so a switch interface with an increasing collisions counter might not
even have a problem. However, one problem, called late collisions, points to the classic duplex mismatch problem.

If a LAN design follows cabling guidelines, all collisions should occur by the end of the 64th byte of any frame. When a switch
has already sent 64 bytes of a frame, and the switch receives a frame on that same interface, the switch senses a collision. In
this case, the collision is a late collision, and the switch increments the late collision counter in addition to the usual 
CSMA/CD actions to send a jam signal, wait a random time, and try again.

With a duplex mismatch, like the mismatch between SW1 and SW2 in Image8.PNG, the halfduplex interface will likely see the late
collisions counter increment. Why? The half-duplex interface sends a frame (SW1), but the full-duplex neighbor (SW2) sends at any
time, even after the 64th byte of the frame sent by the half-duplex switch. So, just keep repeating the show interfaces command, 
and if you see the late collisions counter incrementing on a halfduplex interface, you might have a duplex mismatch problem.

In particular, if the CRC errors grow, but the collisions counters do not, the problem might simply be interference on the cable. (The
switch counts each collided frame as one form of input error as well.)