Most enterprise computer networks can be separated into two general types of technology: 
local-area networks (LANs) and wide-area networks (WANs). LANs typically connect nearby
devices: devices in the same room, in the same building, or in a campus of buildings. In
contrast, WANs connect devices that are typically relatively far apart. Together, LANs and
WANs create a complete enterprise computer network, working together to do the job of a 
computer network: delivering data from one device to another.

Many types of LANs have existed over the years, but today’s networks use two general 
types of LANs: Ethernet LANs and wireless LANs. Ethernet LANs happen to use cables for the
links between nodes, and because many types of cables use copper wires, Ethernet LANs are
often called wired LANs. Ethernet LANs also make use of fiber-optic cabling, which includes
a fiberglass core that devices use to send data using light. In comparison to Ethernet, 
wireless LANs do not use wires or cables, instead using radio waves for the links between
nodes;

OVERVIEW OF LANs
The term Ethernet refers to a family of LAN standards that together define the physical and
data-link layers of the world’s most popular wired LAN technology. The standards, defined by
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), define the cabling, the 
connectors on the ends of the cables, the protocol rules, and everything else required to
create an Ethernet LAN.

TYPICAL SOHO (SMALL OFFICE or HOME OFFICE) LANs
First, the LAN needs a device called an Ethernet LAN switch, which provides many physical 
ports into which cables can be connected. An Ethernet uses Ethernet cables, which is a general
reference to any cable that conforms to any of several Ethernet standards. The LAN uses 
Ethernet cables to connect different Ethernet devices or nodes to one of the switch’s Ethernet
ports.

Image1.PNG shows a drawing of a SOHO Ethernet LAN. The figure shows a single LAN switch, five
cables, and five other Ethernet nodes: three PCs, a printer, and one network device called a
router. (The router connects the LAN to the WAN, in this case to the Internet).

Although Image1.PNG shows the switch and router as separate devices, many SOHO Ethernet LANs
today combine the router and switch into a single device(Image2.PNG). Vendors sell consumer-grade 
integrated networking devices that work as a router and Ethernet switch, as well as doing other
functions. These devices typically have “router” on the packaging, but many models also have
four-port or eight-port Ethernet LAN switch ports built in to the device.

Wireless LANs, defined by the IEEE using standards that begin with 802.11, use radio waves to 
send the bits from one node to the next. Most wireless LANs rely on yet another networking device:
a wireless LAN access point (AP: Image3.PNG). The AP acts somewhat like an Ethernet switch, in 
that all the wireless LAN nodes(devices) communicate with the wireless AP. If the network uses an
AP that is a separate physical device, the AP then needs a single Ethernet link to connect the AP
to the Ethernet LAN, as shown in Image4.PNG.

Note that Image4.PNG shows the router, Ethernet switch, and wireless LAN access point as three 
separate devices so that you can better understand the different roles. However, most SOHO networks
today would use a single device, often labeled as a “wireless router,” that does all these functions.
(Image3.PNG)

TYPICAL ENTERPRISE LANs 
enterprise Ethernet LANs begin with LAN switches installed in a wiring closet behind a locked door(Image5.PNG) on
each floor of a building. The electricians install the Ethernet cabling from that wiring closet to 
cubicles and conference rooms where devices might need to connect to the LAN. At the same time, most
enterprises also support wireless LANs in the same space, to allow people to roam around(berkeliling) and still 
work and to support a growing number of devices that do not have an Ethernet LAN interface.

Image6.PNG shows a conceptual view of a typical enterprise LAN in a three-story building. Each floor has an 
Ethernet LAN switch and a wireless LAN AP. To allow communication between floors, each per-floor switch 
connects to one centralized distribution switch. For example, PC3 can send data to PC2, but it would first
flow through switch SW3 to the first floor to the distribution switch (SWD) and then back up through switch SW2
on the second floor.
The figure also shows the typical way to connect a LAN to a WAN using a router. LAN switches and wireless access
points work to create the LAN itself. Routers connect to both the LAN and the WAN.

THE VARIETY OF ETHERNET PHYSICAL LAYER STANDARDS
The term Ethernet refers to an entire family of standards. Some standards define the specifics of how to send data
over a particular type of cabling, and at a particular speed(data-link layer). Other standards define protocols, 
or rules, that the Ethernet nodes must follow to be a part of an Ethernet LAN(physical layer). All these Ethernet
standards come from the IEEE and include the number 802.3 as the beginning part of the standard name.

The most fundamental cabling choice has to do with the materials used inside the cable for the physical 
transmission of bits: either copper wires or glass fibers. Devices using UTP cabling transmit data over electrical
circuits via the copper wires inside the cable. Fiber-optic cabling, the more expensive alternative, allows Ethernet
nodes to send light over glass fibers in the center of the cable. Although more expensive, optical cables typically
allow longer cabling distances between nodes.

a network engineer must know the names and features of the different Ethernet standards supported in Ethernet products.
The IEEE also uses more meaningful shortcut names that identify the speed, as well as a clue about whether the cabling
is UTP (with a suffix that includes T) or fiber (with a suffix that includes X). Table 2-2 lists a few Ethernet physical
layer standards:

    Speed           Common Name         Informal IEEE       Formal IEEE         Cable Type,
                                        Standard Name       Standard Name       Maximum Length
――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
    10 Mbps         Ethernet            10BASE-T            802.3 Copper,        100 m
    100 Mbps        Fast Ethernet       100BASE-T           802.3u Copper,       100 m
    1000 Mbps       Gigabit Ethernet    1000BASE-LX         802.3z Fiber,        5000 m
    1000 Mbps       Gigabit Ethernet    1000BASE-T          802.3ab Copper,      100 m
    10 Gbps         10 Gig Ethernet     10GBASE-T           802.3an Copper,      100 m

CONSISTENT BEHAVIOR OVER ALL LINKS USING THE ETHERNET DATA-LINK LAYER
Although Ethernet includes many physical layer standards, Ethernet acts like a single LAN technology because it uses the
same data-link layer standard over all types of Ethernet physical links. No matter whether the data flows over a UTP cable
or any kind of fiber cable, and no matter the speed, the data-link header and trailer use the same format.

While the physical layer standards focus on sending bits over a cable, the Ethernet data-link protocols focus on sending an
Ethernet frame from source to destination Ethernet node. From a data-link perspective, nodes build and forward frames. 
Image7.PNG shows an example of the process. In this case, PC1 sends an Ethernet frame to PC3. The frame travels over a UTP
link to Ethernet switch SW1, then over fiber links to Ethernet switches SW2 and SW3, and finally over another UTP link to PC3.
Note that the bits actually travel at four different speeds in this example: 10 Mbps, 1 Gbps, 10 Gbps, and 100 Mbps, respectively.

So, what is an Ethernet LAN? It is a combination of user devices, LAN switches, and different kinds of cabling. Each link can use
different types of cables, at different speeds. However, they all work together to deliver Ethernet frames from the one device on
the LAN to some other device.   