BUILDING PHYSICAL ETHERNET LANs WITH UTP (unshielded Twisted Pair)
While it is true that Ethernet sends data over UTP cables, the physical means to send the data
uses electricity that flows over the wires inside the UTP cable. To better understand how 
Ethernet sends data using electricity, break the idea down into two parts: how to create an
electrical circuit and then how to make that electrical signal communicate 1s and 0s.

First, to create one electrical circuit, Ethernet defines how to use the two wires inside a 
single twisted pair of wires, as shown in Image8.PNG. The figure does not show a UTP cable
between two nodes, but instead shows two individual wires that are inside the UTP cable.

    .-----.
    | | | | -> UTP connector
    |_|_|_|
      | |
      | |   -> two wires inside UTP cable.
      | |

An electrical circuit requires a complete loop, so the two nodes, using circuitry on their 
Ethernet ports, connect the wires in one pair to complete a loop, allowing electricity to flow.

To send data, the two devices follow some rules called an encoding scheme. The idea works a lot
like when two people talk using the same language: The speaker says some words in a particular
language, and the listener, because she speaks the same language, can understand the spoken 
words. With an encoding scheme, the transmitting node changes the electrical signal over time,
while the other node, the receiver, using the same rules, interprets those changes as either 0s
or 1s. (For example, 10BASE-T uses an encoding scheme that encodes a binary 0 as a transition 
from higher voltage to lower voltage during the middle of a 1/10,000,000th-of-a-second interval)

Note that in an actual UTP cable, the wires will be twisted together, instead of being parallel 
as shown in Image8.PNG. 
    ><>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-     => twisted 
    .---------------------------    
    |___________________________    => parallel 

The twisting helps solve some important physical transmission issues. When electrical current 
passes over any wire, it creates electromagnetic interference (EMI) that interferes with the 
electrical signals in nearby wires, including the wires in the same cable. (EMI between wire pairs
in the same cable is called crosstalk.) Twisting the wire pairs together helps cancel out most of
the EMI, so most networking physical links that use copper wires use twisted pairs.
    
BREAKING DOWN A UTP ETHERNET LINK
To learn about how a UTP Ethernet link works, it helps to break down the physical link into those
basic pieces, as shown in Image9.PNG: the cable itself, the connectors on the ends of the cable, and
the matching ports on the devices into which the connectors will be inserted. 

First, think about the UTP cable itself. The cable holds some copper wires, grouped as twisted pairs.
The 10BASE-T and 100BASE-T standards require two pairs of wires(4 wires), while the 1000BASE-T standard
requires four pairs(8 wires). Each wire has a color-coded plastic coating(lapisan plastika kode warna),
with the wires in a pair having a color scheme(pola warna). For example, for the blue wire pair, one
wire’s coating is all blue, while the other wire’s coating is blue-and-white striped. (Image10.PNG)

Many Ethernet UTP cables use an RJ-45 connector on both ends. The RJ-45 connector has eight physical
locations into which the eight wires in the cable can be inserted, called pin positions, or simply pins.
These pins create a place where the ends of the copper wires can touch the electronics inside the nodes
at the end of the physical link so that electricity can flow.

PCs often include this RJ-45 Ethernet port as part of a network interface card (NIC), which can be an
expansion card on the PC or can be built in to the system itself. Switches typically have many RJ-45 ports
because switches give user devices a place to connect to the Ethernet LAN. Image11.PNG shows photos of the
cables, connectors, and ports.

Cisco LAN switches often support other types of connectors as well. To give its customers flexibility as to
the type of Ethernet links, even after the customer has bought the switch, Cisco switches include some 
physical ports whose port hardware (the transceiver) can be changed later, after you purchase the switch.

For example, Image12.PNG shows a photo of a Cisco switch with one of the swappable transceivers. In this case,
the figure shows an enhanced(tambahan) small form-factor pluggable (SFP+) transceiver, which runs at 10 Gbps, just
outside two SFP+ slots on a Cisco 3560CX switch. The SFP+ itself is the silver-colored part below the switch,
with a black cable connected to it.

Gigabit Ethernet Interface Converter (GBIC): The original form factor for a removable transceiver for Gigabit 
                                             interfaces; larger than SFPs (Image13.PNG)
Small Form Pluggable (SFP): The replacement for GBICs, used on Gigabit interfaces, with a smaller size, taking
                            less space on the side of the networking card or switch.
Small Form Pluggable Plus (SFP+): Same size as the SFP, but used on 10-Gbps interfaces. (The Plus refers to the
                                  increase in speed compared to SFPs.)

UTP CABLING PINOUTS FOR 10BASE-T AND 100BASE-T
You could drive the truck all over the ranch(peternakan), any place you wanted to go, and the police would not
mind. However, as soon as you get on the public roads, the police want you to behave and follow the rules.
some important rules for Ethernet cabling: the rules of the road so that all the devices send data using the
right wires inside the cable.

STRAIGHT-THROUGH CABLE PINOUT (posisi pin)
10BASE-T and 100BASE-T use two pairs of wires in a UTP cable, one for each direction, as shown in Image14.PNG. In
this example, the PC on the left transmits using the top pair, and the switch on the right transmits using the 
bottom pair. (Now compare with Image15.PNG) 

in Image14.PNG, the transmitter on the PC on the left must know the pin positions of the two wires it should use 
to transmit. Those two wires must be connected to the correct pins in the RJ-45 connector on the switch so that
the switch’s receiver logic can use the correct wires. As a rule, Ethernet NIC transmitters use the pair connected
to pins 1 and 2; the NIC receivers use a pair of wires at pin positions 3 and 6. LAN switches, knowing those facts
about what Ethernet NICs do, do the opposite: Their receivers use the wire pair at pins 1 and 2, and their 
transmitters use the wire pair at pins 3 and 6.

The term pinout refers to the wiring of which color wire is placed in each of the eight numbered pin positions in
the RJ-45 connector. An Ethernet straightthrough cable connects the wire at pin 1 on one end of the cable to pin 1
at the other end of the cable; the wire at pin 2 needs to connect to pin 2 on the other end of the cable; pin 3 on
one end connects to pin 3 on the other, and so on, as seen in Figure 2-10. Also, it uses the wires in one wire pair
at pins 1 and 2, and another pair at pins 3 and 6.

Image17.PNG shows one final perspective on the straight-through cable pinout. In this case, PC Larry connects to a
LAN switch. Note that the figure again does not show the UTP cable, but instead shows the wires that sit inside the
cable, to emphasize the idea of wire pairs and pins.

However, when two like devices connect to an Ethernet link, they both transmit on the same pins. In that case, you
then need another type of cabling pinout called a crossover cable. The crossover cable pinout crosses the pair at
the transmit pins on each device to the receive pins on the opposite device. 

While that previous sentence is true, this concept is much clearer with a figure such as Figure Image18.PNG. The two
switches both transmit on the pair at pins 3 and 6, and they both receive on the pair at pins 1 and 2. So, the cable
must connect a pair at pins 3 and 6 on each side to pins 1 and 2 on the other side, connecting to the other node’s
receiver logic. The top of the figure shows the literal pinouts, and the bottom half shows a conceptual diagram.
(Now see Image20.PNG)