CHOOSING THE RIGHT CABLE PINOUTS
For the exam, you should be well prepared to choose which type of cable (straight-through or
crossover) is needed in each part of the network. The key is to know whether a device acts
like a PC NIC, transmitting at pins 1 and 2, or like a switch, transmitting at pins 3 and 6.
Then, just apply the following logic:

    Crossover cable: If the endpoints transmit on the same pin pair
    Straight-through cable: If the endpoints transmit on different pin pairs

Table 2-3 lists the devices and the pin pairs they use, assuming that they use 10BASE-T and
100BASE-T

    Transmits on Pins 1,2                       Transmits on Pins 3,6
    PC NICs                                     Hubs
    Routers                                     Switches
    Wireless access point (Ethernet interface)  —

For example, Image19.PNG shows a campus LAN in a single building. In this case, several straight
-through cables are used to connect PCs to switches. In addition, the cables connecting the 
switches require crossover cables.

NOTE If you have some experience with installing LANs, you might be thinking that you have used 
the wrong cable before (straight-through or crossover), but the cable worked. Cisco switches have
a feature called auto-mdix that notices when the wrong cable is used and automatically changes 
its logic to make the link work. However, for the exams, be ready to identify whether the correct
cable is shown in the figures.

UTP CABLING PINOUTS FOR 1000BASE-T
First, 1000BASE-T requires four wire pairs. Second, it uses more advanced electronics that allow
both ends to transmit and receive simultaneously on each wire pair. However, the wiring pinouts
for 1000BASE-T work almost identically to the earlier standards, adding details for the additional
two pairs.

The straight-through cable for 1000BASE-T uses the four wire pairs to create four circuits, but the
pins need to match. It uses the same pinouts for two pairs as do the 10BASE-T and 100BASE-T standards,
and it adds a pair at pins 4 and 5 and the final pair at pins 7 and 8, as shown in Image21.PNG. (for
the color also exactly the same as the straight-through for 10BASE-T and the crossover version)

The Gigabit Ethernet crossover cable crosses the same two-wire pairs as the crossover cable for the
other types of Ethernet (the pairs at pins 1,2 and 3,6). It also crosses the two new pairs as well 
(the pair at pins 4,5 with the pair at pins 7,8).

BUILDING PHYSICAL ETHERNET LANs WITH FIBER
In some cases, however, an engineer might prefer to use fiber cabling for some links in an Ethernet LAN,
first to reach greater distances, but for other reasons as well.

Fiber-optic cabling uses glass as the medium through which light passes, varying that light over time
to encode 0s and 1s. It might seem strange at first to use glass given that most of us think of glass
in windows. Window glass is hard, unbending, and if you hit or bend it enough, the glass will probably
shatter—all bad characteristics for a cabling material.

Instead, fiber-optic cables use fiberglass, which allows a manufacturer to spin a long thin string 
(fiber) of flexible glass. A fiber-optic cable holds the fiber in the middle of the cable, allowing the
light to pass through the glass—which is a very important attribute for the purposes of sending data.

(Image22.PNG)
The three outer layers of the cable protect the interior of the cable and make the cables easier to 
install and manage, while the inner cladding and core work together to create the environment to allow
transmission of light over the cable. A light source, called the optical transmitter, shines a light 
into the core. Light can pass through the core; however, light reflects off the cladding back into the 
core. Image23.PNG shows an example with a light emitting diode (LED) transmitter. You can see how the
cladding reflects the light back into the core as it travels through the core.

The figure(Image23.PNG) shows the normal operation of a multimode fiber, characterized by the fact that
the cable allows for multiple angles (modes) of light waves entering the core.

In contrast, single-mode fiber uses a smaller-diameter core, around one-fifth the diameter of common 
multimode cables (see Image24.PNG). To transmit light into a much smaller core, a laser-based transmitter
sends light at a single angle (hence the name single-mode).

Multimode improves the maximum distances over UTP, and it uses less expensive transmitters as compared 
with single-mode. Standards do vary; for instance, the standards for 10 Gigabit Ethernet over Fiber allow
for distances up to 400m, which would often allow for connection of devices in different buildings in the
same office park. Single-mode allows distances into the tens of kilometers, but with slightly more 
expensive SFP/SFP+ hardware.

To transmit between two devices, you need two cables, one for each direction, as shown in Image25.PNG. 
Note that the transmit port on one device connects to a cable that connects to a receive port on the other
device, and vice versa with the other cable.

USING FIBER WITH ETHERNET
Refer back to Image12.PNG, which shows a photo of a switch with two SFP+ ports, into which you could insert
any of the supported SFP+ modules. Those SFP+ ports support a variety of 10-Gbps standards like those listed in
Table 2-4.

        Standard        Cable Type      Max Distance*
        ――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
        10GBASE-S       MM              400m                S for short
        10GBASE-LX4     MM              300m                LX for long extension
        10GBASE-LR      SM              10km                LR for long range
        10GBASE-E       SM              30km                E for extended
        * The maximum distances are based on the IEEE standards with no repeaters

UTP wins again on cost, because the cost goes up as you move from UTP, to multimode, and then to single-mode,
due to the extra cost for the transmitters like the SFP and SFP+ modules. UTP has some negatives, however. First,
UTP might work poorly in some electrically noisy environments such as factories, because UTP can be affected by 
electromagnetic interference (EMI). Also, UTP cables emit a faint signal outside the cable, so highly secure 
networks may choose to use fiber, which does not create similar emissions, to make the network more secure. 

*The faint signal emitted outside of cables is known as leakage radiation. This occurs in various forms of signal
 transmission technologies such as TV remotes, telephone and internet communications through optical fibers, and cell
 phone conversations. These signals can be detected and copied, which highlights the need for secure communication methods.

        Criteria                                        UTP     Multimode   Single-Mode
        ――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――――
        Relative Cost of Cabling                        Low     Medium      Medium
        Relative Cost of a Switch Port                  Low     Medium      High
        Approximate Max Distance                        100m    500m        40km
        Relative Susceptibility to Interference         Some    None        None
        Relative Risk of Copying from Cable Emissions   Some    None        None